---
title: "Welcome to WDC 2.0 - Now with multiple tables!"
abstract: "We are excited to announce the first new major release of the Web Data Connector - Version 2.0.  The new version of the API will allow you to build more powerful and flexible connectors to Tableau."
photoname: "blog_welcome.png"
---

Note: this content and the above rendering are still in beta and liabale to change. 

#### So, what's new?
When the initial version of the WDC API was released with 9.1, it allowed you, as the developer,
to connect Tableau to all kinds of web data sources.  The response to WDC has been phenomenal! We've seen 
hundreds of web data connectors built.  But, as usual, there were some shortcomings in the design of V1.  There
were also some crucial limitations (wait, I can only bring back a single table?).

We've learned alot since V1, and we've received alot of helpful feedback from the developers in this community.
In response to that feedback, and in an effort to continue to empower you to connect to the data you care about,
we are excited to release version 2.0 of the web data connector API.  This first new major release has two 
fundamental changes:

- The API now allows the web data connector to independently bring back multiple tables
- The API waits for the developer to tell it when it's finished gathering data, rather than repeatedly calling getData.


#### V1 vs. V2 example
In version 1, at a high level, a connector followed this flow:

1. WDC loads and runs its interactive phase. When finished, it calls tableau.submit().
2. In the data gathering phase, Tableau/Simulator calls connector.getColumnHeaders(), which defines the schema for a single table. The WDC calls a predefined callback when it finishes defining the schema.
3. Tableau/Simulator calls connector.getTableData() which returns data through the predefined tableau.dataCallback.
4. Step 3 is repeated until dataCallback passes a flag to tell Tableau it has no more data.


In contrast, at a high level, version 2 of the API follows this flow:

1. WDC loads and runs its interactive phase. When finished, it calls tableau.submit().
2. In the data gathering phase, Tableau/Simulator calls connector.getSchema, which defines schemas for one or more tables. getSchema is passed a callback that the WDC calls when it has finished defining schemas.
3. Tableau/Simulator calls connector.getData. getData is passed both a callback and a table that Tableau/Simulator has requested data for. Within getData, the WDC developer can add data to the passed table at any time using a new method called appendRows. getData is called once for each table that Tableau needs data for - those selected by the end user in Tableau.
4. Whenever the WDC has finished getting all of its data for the requested tables, it calls the passed in doneCallback.


#### Other new features
Other than these two large changes, we have several more improvements coming your way!

- New Metadata APIs - Tell Tableau if your field is a dimension, a measure, discrete, continus, a State, a Zip Code, an oddly formatted currency, and more!
- Clearer Authentication - Tell Tableau what your auth type is and when your connector has authetnication needs. 
- Whitelisting functionality on Tableau Server - you no longer are forced to use tabadmin import_webdataconnector.
- All new samples and development simulator.
- A new community portal to browse community built connectors.